hey what's up you know meeting people on
the internet is a strange thing very
often the first thing you learn about
someone would be something personal that
you might not know about them if you'd
met them face to face in a coffee shop
you might not learn about them for many
years even if they were a friend that
you made in primary school they were a
friend you made in high school if they
were friend you made in university or if
they were friend you met for the first
time in the workplace as a grown adult
you might know someone for years without
knowing what poster is hanging on their
bedroom wall you may never know that
about some of your closest friends in
the same way I mean with the Internet
sometimes the first thing you learn
about somebody is what type of music
they listen to and what they think about
that music their personal tastes and so
on and you may not know that about your
university professors your work
colleagues or getting friend's you've
had for years possibly friends you met
in university in high school or what
have you so it is a bit of a funny thing
in my life but it's not entirely
surprising to me that so many people
have wanted me for a long time now to
make a video talking about rap music and
the roles had my life why it is that
hip-hop or how it was that hip-hop and
rap music really became the one genre of
music I listen to that it came to
dominate you know my musical interests
in my adult life so in this video I'm
going to skip over sort of the cultural
context I grew up in could be a much
longer video talking about the way
hip-hop culture and rap music ascended
in toronto canada during my lifetime
while I was growing up how it ascended
from something marginal hated and feared
by the mainstream to being something so
powerful that it really redefined the
mainstream and Senta just was accepted
as a normal and not too threatening part
of mainstream cultures that was a
transformation that had before my eyes
uh but in terms of my how the role of
that culture in my life um the first
thing I'd say is that you know one of
the lessons I had already learned before
i started publicly identifying myself as
a fan of rap music is really a question
about what it means to have a culture at
all a lot of people in Toronto Toronto
is a little bit influenced by Scottish
culture a lot of people try to snub you
and ridicule you just to see how you
react they take a poke at you I don't
mind that much but the Scottish are huge
on that
that's a really kind of a legacy of
Scottish culture again in some ways I
remember a guy at my university guy who
knew me a little bit it was my friend at
the time but he knew me a bit um he saw
me that time had physical CDs in my
backpack of rap music those are the days
you own pieces of plastic and so this
guy said completely contemptuously he
said oh I suppose if you met these
people you think you would have
something in common with them yeah we
start these people of he was alluding to
like ghostface he was looking like
members of wu-tang or you know
represented by the color illustrations
leave peacefully and without me missing
a beat without a moment's hesitation I
looked him in the eye and I said that's
not the problem the problem is that you
think if you sat down had a conversation
with jsbach that you'd have anything
coming you think that you could sit down
with vogner or Shakespeare and that you
represent the same culture just because
you're both white it was a great moment
and you know conversation even though
you didn't freak out and then we talked
about a bit he really thought about it
and he knew enough actually about the
composer's i mentioned to realize that
most of them were kind of religious
maniacs and he actually did reflect on
the extent to which he did assume that
he had something in common culturally
with someone like vogner or Johann
Sebastian Bach even though
intellectually on some level he knew he
didn't he was aware me Johann Sebastian
Bach was a complete religious maniac by
the way really to call him eccentric as
flattering um and obsessed with
numerology and the stuff he that was the
first moment when he stopped and
reflected that he would be totally
incapable of sitting down and having
conversation with you on Sebastian Bach
or vogner or Shakespeare and now I have
no claim that I could sit down and have
a great conversation with Ghostface or
Method Man or any of the founding
members of Wutang but that's not
important to me that's not what culture
is in my life and I've actually dealt
with that in parallel I've dealt with
that many many times when white people
try to insult me and reproach me because
I studied Cambodia like oh you think
you're Cambodian know
I'm not a part of Cambodian culture
Cambodian culture is a part of my life
when I studied Korean a jib way I don't
think I'm First Nations I don't think
I'm Native American I don't think I'm
part of it I don't think I'm part of
that culture studying that culture is
part of my life I care about the
politics in that culture whether you're
talking about curry or Cambodia and
whatever i don't i don't think a part of
it of course the funny thing is with any
of those fields once you get it deep
enough those people start to claim you
which is also really interesting i
remember one situation something like
this happened about twice only but i
remember once I was speaking Lao the
lotion language say lotion but they'll
just like Lao so in the language in Laos
now speaking pretty at a pretty good
clip at that particular moment and then
I walked into a hotel I was speaking out
in the street I walked into a hotel and
the guy inside the hotel started trying
to explain something to me in English
and a little old lady who had just seen
me talking the street she talked to me a
little bit but she wasn't she actually
ran into the hotel and she said to the
the guy working the hotel lobby she
don't know don't worry about it he's a
white loud like he's a white lotion and
you know still to this day I have no
idea what that man everyone in the room
was like oh okay and then they started
speaking about co the extreme example
I've been speaking Lao for about two
years at that point I guess when
speaking speaking practicing the
language so there are times even when
you don't claim a culture when other
people turn around and clan acclaim you
to some extent like oh you're a
foreigner but you've put in the hard
work to learn our language study our
history and our politics so to some
extent we're claiming you will did
that's interesting but no I mean back
then the point at which i started
publicly identifying as a person who
listens to rabaa as a fan there's no big
deal is a consumer of this culture was
the point at which i was really
comfortable dealing with bullies who try
to denigrate you and insult you um
because they assume that I want to
pretend that I'm a part of that culture
and I'm not that culture is a part of my
life now how many people listen to
western music and they're not Cowboys so
what are you going to say only if you
actually ride a horse
work on a ranch if only actual Cowboys
can listen to western music as a
cultural phenomenon that means i think
has been at a fashionable western music
music about cowboys millions of people
listen to it who never rode a horse whom
it probably who never owned a gun but
never lived through any of those
situations he never roped cattle yeah
the word cowboy changes meaning
obviously i am not a gangster I'm not a
rapper I'm not part of the culture I'm
not part of the subculture associated
with the creation of that but the whole
point is there's a much larger culture
that consumes it that listens to it
that's the audience for it and I have
absolutely no sense of shame no sense of
hesitation i know you know i have to me
you're not insulting me but finding
those things out about drawing my
attention of those contradictions I'm
totally comfortable with those
contradictions the questions are you
comfortable with the contradiction that
you claim Shakespeare like if you're a
white Canadian who thinks you're part of
the same culture is Shakespeare you're
not you may be part of the culture of
the British Empire that's guilty of
genocide in Canada you may be home of
all kinds of cultural legacies in
reality but no you and Shakespeare
there's an ocean separating you from
Shakespeare and actually the gap between
you and a guy like Ghostface it's not
that it's not that why actually you
could sit down and have dinner with
Ghostface or any of the members of
wu-tang and I don't know I know what you
talk about talk about the latest
elections talk about what's in the
newspaper you know actually it wouldn't
be that hard for you guys drill each
other it's not that alien um but I think
that is something fundamental you know
when I was researching Buddhism I wasn't
pretending to be a Buddhist monk I
wasn't part of that culture but that
culture and that religion was part of my
life now again some of those people
claimed me you know i mean they wanted
to treat me like i was a Buddhist monk
ER like I was preaching that religion
when I was studying it and that's
understandable there are gray areas
there when you get into religion it's
kind of a different thing but music and
hip-hop culture you know is not a
religion doesn't have those elements so
you know long story short what
importance to the above have my life
when I was in Toronto during that period
of time was very much an ascendant
culture it went from being sling
marginal hated and feared totally
reading
redefining the mainstream saw that
happen music that when it first came out
was considered shocking and threatening
and rebellious 20 years later is being
played as background music at the mall
when people are shopping for bargain
clothes it's an amazing transformation
to me but I think a lot of people who
grew up in the 1960s saw the same thing
music that in the 1960s was considered
shocking and rebellious and politically
prerogative 20 years later in the 1980s
was being played as background music at
the mall so it's not a completely unique
cultural historical experience but
that's my generation I saw that happen
with hip-hop so there's nothing
particularly surprising that the hip-hop
happens music I listen to but while i
was still in toronto well it was still
in canada it was less important to me
than it was after i moved to asia i had
years like when i was in Laos I had long
periods of time where I never really
spoke to anyone in English like you know
if you went to the pharmacy the guy who
works at the pharmacy would speak to you
in broken English but where I was
speaking allow all day every day and
where I very rarely heard the English
language spoken well soon if I was
communicate with you know maybe you buy
an airplane ticket and the guy working
at the counter speaks to you in English
it good enough English to buy the
airplane ticket obviously but the
importance rap music had in my life
really escalated really ramped up when I
was no longer hearing idiomatic fluent
persuasive passionate English being
spoken by the people around me so it was
at that point probably living in Vienna
I already listen to hip-hop four years
before that but it didn't feel that
important in my life and that time also
i was still listening to classical music
and when i was living in laos studying
pally studying lao studying the history
and politics that part of Southeast Asia
that was when I really plunged into
heavily listening to hip-hop all the
time and nothing else everything else
dropped out of my listening schedule I
stopped listening the last couple of
like white artists disappeared from my
hard drive just to be blunt there were
only a few then and that's when I
stopped listening to you on Sebastian
Bach and the
more metrical classical music and when
it really became more rewarding for me
to hear the language used in that way
and so you know long story short that's
never left now another really
interesting turning point in my life you
know around the time my daughter was
born I thought you know raising my
daughter I thought okay now for like ten
years hip hop is going to disappear from
my life because I wasn't going to listen
to gangster rap in front of my daughter
as a toddler so there was actually a
point when I deleted all the wrap up my
hard drive because I was a hundred and
ten percent committed to raising my
daughter those you watch this channel
before and though I'm divorced so after
I got divorced I ended up looking on my
hard drive again but that was another
interesting turning point where was like
okay you realize this music that has
such a high level of slang and profanity
and you know such a big role for
reflections and violence and what have
you um you know that was going to
disappear from my life and disappear
from a computer for a while so you know
uh that was another moment when that
stuff was was meaningful welp anyone
especially meaningful moment for me um
now you know some of you might ask
nobody ever has asked but some of you
might ask given that I'm a vegan given
that I believe in minimizing violence
towards animals and people ever possible
why would I listen to a genre of music
that has set your relentless focus
amounts look you know i'ma come out of a
hard brass tacks political science
background all the books I read I mean
you know whether it's ancient Greek
philosophy or modern political science
the fact that peace exists in the shadow
of war that civility and manners and you
know human civilization exists in the
shadow of the constant threat of
violence that it's like new to me then I
sign strange and that ain't something
particular to rap music again you can
compare rap music to cowboy music there
are many other genres of meat of music
and literature you can compare it to
Shakespeare how many people get stabbed
in the average Shakespeare play I mean
as a lot of violence and Shakespeare to
UM from Titus Andronicus on down man
um so you know the role of violence in
hip-hop it is significant and I do think
it's actually meaningful to have an art
form that is so much engaged in
meditation on the role of violence in
our lives the shadow it casts over our
lives I don't think that's meaningless
at all and you know I think that does
connect to my philosophy of veganism in
just one simple sense in this video
there I think it's true that all of us
choose if we're going to live lives of
escapism or if we're going to live lives
of confrontation you know you can look
at the reality of a cow having its
throat cut in a slaughterhouse whether
that's in a video or a photograph or a
newspaper article you can look at the
reality of what mass production of meat
is what that industry is and you can
choose to evade it you can choose to lie
to yourself use to make up excuses you
can choose to live a life of
self-deception and of comforting
half-truths or you can choose to
confront it and you know what both in
their way are actually kind of
emotionally devastating this channel I
mostly talk about how the vegan path is
emotionally exhausting and so on but all
the time I talked to meat eaters who are
extremely emotionally [ __ ] up of a
where their food comes true they've
taken that other path but it leads to
their own you know its own problems and
you know I am someone who wanted to face
up to the reality of violence both real
direct violence in the simplest sense
and more symbolic and abstract violence
like the fact that when I grew up the
threat of nuclear war totally defined
the society and politics around me etc
so yes in that one sense at least both
veganism and my engagement with hip-hop
music with gangster rap with the more
hardcore edge of hip-hop music that does
reflect something about my character and
I don't think it's a bad thing